% PPUK:York Branch Meeting Minutes
% Dan Turner (d.turner@pirateparty.org.uk)
% 18^th^ October 2013

Attendees
=========

  * Leanne Ainsworth (Cosette181)
  * Phil Cooke (Tempest3K)
  * Persephone Hallow (Seffles, chair)
  * Dan Turner (Tinned_Tuna, secretary)
  * 46bit
  * Michael Walker (barrucadu)
  * Nick (lupine)
  * Adam Hirst

Apologies
=========

  * None

Minutes
=======

### Format Overview

The format of this meeting was to be more of an open or round-table approach, 
where attendees would be able to air their political grievances, and then 
people would be asked to decide communally as to which would be discussed in
more depth.

### Initial Discussions

Phil let Turner know that the stall table for campaigning had been bought at a 
cost of £35, and the accounts therefore need updating.

Sephy poses the question to the floor of what do the attendees feel is the most
important issue to themselves right now.

Nick says that he has sent an email to his MP about PRISM, and received a 
canned response, which was identical to another received by a friend. Nick says
that he would like more or better representation.

Mike states that the right to recall would be useful, as would better 
accountability.

Sephy asks if that would require greater transparency from the government to 
work?

46bit joins the group.

Adam state that he is generally apathetic to politics, but that his is 
concerned about the fact that there are many unelected people who have a major
influence on the legislature of the country, he specifically mentions those in
the house of lords, for example, Bishops, leading to a gender imbalance.

Sephy makes the point that England and Iran are the only countries with 
religious leaders with direct political power.

46bit would like a better research process -- if an MP requests some research
(e.g. on behalf of a constituent), it is typically kept a secret.

Sephy mentions that Open Access is one of our policies, but Phil notes that 
some research for constituents may need to be kept secret, especially where it
is performed on behalf of a vulnerable person. Sephy agrees with this, and 
gives the example of the LGBTQ community.

46bit notes that the research is *typically* kept secret, but that 
it is optional.

Phil would like a lower bar of entry for politics. There is a financial 
discriminant at play. Nick mentions the cost of the PCC elections -- £5,000
just to run.

Leanne would like more recognition of early years teachers and a better salary.
Early years teachers typically put up with (literally) more shit in a day, 
and are on minimum wage. Even after expensive qualifications, they still often
only earn minimum wage.

Turner would like to deal with the incompetence that often arises at local 
government level. Personally had to deal with many failures of the local 
council's billing system whilst a student and while in full-time employment.

Sephy would like to see more done about immigration; specifically, that we need
more education around the subject, and to determine why some immigrants are 
looked upon more harshly; for example, Polish immigrants vs. Canadian 
immigrants.

Nick feels that the language provisions in school are quite lacking, and that
there could be a much better provision for foreign languages in school. Adam
says that he feels there could be a general lack of education. Sephy queries if
there is potentially something to do with the difference in perception from
public vs. comprehensive schools. Leanne went to a grammar school, and noted 
that those who paid to get into the school are (in her experience) now doing 
worse than those who got into the school on a scholarship.

Mike still feels that we need better representation and far less party 
politics.

Adam is concerned about specific areas of private ownership, for example, why 
is Kingston Communications allowed to maintain a monopoly in an area where they
provide a sub-standard service at inflated cost? Turner mentions that in Hull 
(also home to Kingston Communications), the state of the public transport 
provision is terrible, and it is also run as a monopoly, with an inflated price
at the point of delivery.

A straw-poll was then conducted to see which of the topics mentioned previously
would be discussed in more depth:

  * Nick's form-response email : All in favour.
  * Right to recall : 3 votes
  * Unelected persons with political power : 4 votes
  * MP Research procedures : 1 vote
  * Lower barrier for entry : All in favour.
  * Early years teaching : 3 votes
  * Local council incompetence : 3 votes
  * Immigration education : 5 votes
  * Language provision: 2 votes
  * Party Politics : 2 votes
  * Monopolistic public services : 4 votes

It is noted that there is a PPUK:York subreddit, found at 
http://www.reddit.com/r/PPUKYork.

A 10 minute break was taken, before we returned to discuss the most popular 
topics from the previous short discussions.

### Form Responses and Poor Representation

Nick feels that Snowden is a hero, simply giving people a canned response to 
the issue is not good enough -- everyone got the same canned response.

Sephy notes that we can't get rid of them very easily, that the MPs get a 
sizeable salary, and don't have to do very much to claim that salary. In any 
other job, they'd be fired exceptionally quickly.

46bit says that the British people lack the spine for revolution. Sephy 
mentions that the government can simply ignore any and all protests. Adam says 
that people are just queuing up to be listened to, but they're really queueing
up to be ignored.

Sephy describes Loz's "Dropped a Bollock" speech at the party conference. Why 
politicians juggling bollocks!?

Leanne voted for the LibDems, but they fucked up tuition fees, Sephy says that
they should be held accountable for their elections promises, even when (as 
Adam points out) they often don't make sense.

Phil notes we're now off-topic.

Leanne feels that mainstream parties are all the same. Phil mentions that MEPs
actually respond properly to communications! But, what can we do to fix this
issue more generally?

Turner vigorously suggests protest, even "illegal" protests, and feels that no 
protest (for a suitably non-violent definition of protest) can be illegal, 
regardless of state consent for the protest.

Sephy wonders if DDoS should a legitimate form of protest? Or if, by Turner's
definition, it is a legitimate (but currently illegal) form of protest. Adam 
notes that most people are afraid of protest, which he attributes primarily to
a lack of understanding.

Leanne feels that people from PPUK:York should call Hugh Bailey, and Nick asks
if this would be some sort of sustained harassment. Phil thinks that writing to
Hugh persistently, and demanding a personal response would be best.

Sephy takes a show of hands to see who would be up for writing their own 
letters to Hugh Bailey to demand a personal response to the issue, 6 people
put their hands up. Sephy also brings up the "Not in my Name" campaign, wherein
people summed up their thoughts and feelings in 3 sentences on a photo.

Leanne mentions a similar campaign, the "I Need Feminism Because ... " 
campaign. Sephy remembers that Cambridge University did a similar campaign, and
feels that conciseness is a very good thing.

Leanne notes that Reddit seems good for this, and personalised things are 
typically good, and mentions that a university society could help us?

Phil, however, thinks that we should aim for people with much more time on 
their hands, for example, pensioners. Adam generally agrees with this.

### Lowering the Barrier of Entry for Politics

Phil starts this topic, noting that any barrier to entry makes a mockery of the
principle of democracy, that is to say, to represent the people, you must first
have the time and funds to run an effective campaign, which already biases the 
set of people likely to be representing the people. Sephy chimes in, noting 
that this implicitly ties in legitimacy to finances.

Phil feels that there is no overnight fix, and asks how do we support
candidates? We should campaign to level the playing field.

Sephy notes that our party only has enough funds to run in two MEP elections.

Adam feels that just running is perfectly fine to get your voice heard, Sephy 
retorts that (as previously mentioned) MPs simply are not listening.

Nick feels that the funding is generally dodgy, he proposes that if you get >5%
of the vote, you should be bank-rolled by the state in the next election, but 
that there is generally no fix for this issue.

Phil feels that we should look through the local election candidates, phone 
them and directly ask them some very uncomfortable questions about where 
they're living, how they're being funded, if they are being "parachuted" in
by their parent party, and how they intend to represent us. He notes that the
next local elections are in 2015.

Sephy asks how we might re-educate the public to remove the assumption that 
money confers legitimacy. Phil says that the best way to do this is via 
grassroots work, for example Loz Kaye & the Ancoats Dispensary.

Turner simply asks "How do we deprive them of legitimacy?"

Phil says that some of them are simply not doing their job -- we need to 
challenge this practice, ask them what they're doing and make sure the press
knows about it.

### Aside

  * Do people like the format? Generally yes
  * Mike would like to see most of the people here at HackSoc Boardgames and 
    Cake

### Immigration Education

Sephy starts this discussion with an anecdote about a taxi driver who 
completely refused to admit any evidence into their world view. Eventually the
taxi driver simply said that they just "had different world views".

Adam notes that a man is entitled to his own opinions, but not his own facts.

46bit mentions that it may've been helpful to ground the argument with 
real-world cases, and that arguing with people does not help. Sephy simply 
feels that people won't understand, and Adam wonders if it's the fault of the
education system by not teaching people to critically assess evidence (e.g. 
newspapers).

Sephy wants to educate people as to why Evidence Based Policies are a good 
thing, how would we go about this? How do we make it work in the face of heated
and emotional arguments? We must talk in terms of the facts.

Turner states that people just don't care about facts.

Mike feels that the segregation of communities can lead to an us-vs-them 
scenario, and Adam notes that it is fallacious to think of it as "our country".
Sephy wants there to be better integration and language tutoring for 
immigrants.

Nick mentions that a large portion of the immigrants in this country actually 
come to work in the field of international finance. They typically have a very
high standard of English, and usually contribute to the higher tax brackets.

Sephy says that international finance is divorced from the working classes, so
they simply don't see it, and therefore don't think of it as a problem. She 
also says that whilst living in China, segregation was *nice*, a sort of relief
from constantly interpreting everything that was said. She also wonders if 
there are enough funds for the integration & language programs.

Adam wonders who has responsibility for helping these people integrate with our
culture? He feels that in the case of asylum seekers, it is clearly our 
responsibility.


Actions
=======

  * Tinned_Tuna to update accounts with the purchase of the stall table.

Next Meeting
============

None arranged, however, some may see each other at the HackSoc Boardgames \& 
Cake evening. The next meeting will be announced by Sephy.

Any Other Business
==================
