% PPUK:York Branch Meeting Minutes 
% Dan Turner (d.turner@pirateparty.org.uk)
% 08^th^ May, 2013

Attendees
=========

  * Leanne Ainsworth (Cosette181)
  * Phil Cooke (Tempest3K)
  * Persephone Hallow (Seffles)
  * Dan Turner (Tinned_Tuna)

Apologies
=========

None

Minutes
=======

### Election of Branch Chair & Treasurer

The branch needs a chair & a treasurer for obvious reasons.

#### Chair

Persephone Hallow was nominated for the position of branch chair, she was 
seconded. A vote was held and she was duly elected as the branch chair by 
unanimous vote. The position was uncontested. 

#### Treasurer

Dan Turner was nominated for the position of branch treasurer, he was seconded.
A vote was held and he was duly elected as the branch treasurer by unanimous 
vote. The position was uncontested. 

#### Post-voting

Phil is to inform the NEC of these changes.

### Press Officer

If Persephone wants to be a press officer, she will need to email Loz Kaye. 

However, Persephone has a relatively in-flexible day job, meaning that she 
will need to find a person to cover days. She may have to recruit press 
volunteers to cover these shifts if she is to be a press officer.o

### Branch Communication Improvements

Phil and Leanne have been working on the branch website. We currently have a 
WordPress blog with a PPUK York branded theme. All relevant members of the 
branch will have editing & publishing rights on the blog.

Phil & Leanne also have a direct line into their flat for those to ring who are
interested in joining or otherwise contacting the party at a local level.

### Campaigns upto 2015

We need to decide how and if we'll split our budgets between national and local
level campaigns in for the 2015 elections, since there will be local and 
national-level elections going on at the same time.

It's noted that we feel far more confident to win campaigns at the local level,
as opposed to the national level.

We could campaign regarding the closure of the Lendal Cellars bridge to car 
traffic at the local level. We would need to inform our campaign with genuine 
evidence -- look at the outcome of the trial, and the quality of the trial.

For general campaigns, we'll have to get ourselves known locally, which could 
mean attending or getting stalls at many local events.

For example, the YO1 Festival has recently passed, and could've been a good 
time to argue for artist's rights. There is also the Resident's Festival and 
RAG (Raising & Giving, university associated) soon.

Regarding the University, once a society is set up, it should be fully 
autonomous, and self recruiting. We need to campaign on issues for local 
people, as most students do not seem to vote in council elections.

We could campaign for busker's rights. Specifically regarding the licensing 
restrictions & media up-roar surrounding a busker being hassled over requesting
donations whilst giving away CDs. Campaigning on behalf of the busker in 
question (Johnny Walker?) would be in-line with Pirate values.

There would also be an opportunity for involvement and support of the LGBT 
community. It would make sense to see if we can get a stall at Pride. This may 
be good to get people talking, and we can demonstrate that things like marriage
equality are part of our core policy (via civil liberties). If we need a stall,
a branch member can pay for it, and it would be noted in the budget as a 
notional donation. However, a branch budget would be preferable.

Any campaigning on campus should really be cleared first with the University, 
as we would prefer to stay on good terms with the administration there.

Assuming we get clearance to campaign on campus, there are a few avenues we 
could explore with regards to leafleting or flyering:

  * Generic PPUK Materials
  * Student Specific Materials

#### Generic PPUK Materials

These would be basic flyers, probably got from central campaigns, but we could 
also make some simple, generic flyers with rhetorical questions on them, and 
our website.

The website would have to have answers to the questions, otherwise people might
go to the website expecting some form of answers to the questions and be 
confused at the lack of answers.

#### Student Specific Materials

Any flyers which were designed to appeal to students must mention our policies
which could directly affect them or future students, for example:

  * Evidence-Based Policies
  * Education Policies (Tuition Fees)
  * Policies relating to research and research grants



Actions
=======

Next Meeting
============

Any Other Business
==================
