% PPUK:York Branch Meeting Minutes
% Dan Turner (d.turner@pirateparty.org.uk)
% 26^th^ April, 2013


Attendees
=========

  * Leanne Ainsworth (Cosette181)
  * Phil Cooke (Tempest3K)
  * Persephone Hallow (Seffles)
  * Dan Turner (Tinned_Tuna)

Minutes
=======

Establishing Ourselves as a Branch
----------------------------------

### The University of York

Our main aim is to get a stall at The University of York's ``Freshers Fair''. 
To do this, we would need to have at least 3 people who are students at the 
university to setup a university society (soc). 

We will need to drum up support for us at the university to get this level of 
involvement, some ideas are:

  * Give talks at various societies, Leanne has already given a talk to the New 
    Generation Society. Other ideas include:

      + FragSoc, the computer gaming society. Perhaps Jamie Garside 
        (slugonamission) would be a good person to contact.
      + Philosophy Society, Persephone knows some people who may be able to 
        help
      + HackSoc, the computer science enthusiasts,
      + The Debating Society,
      + The Freedom Society, Leanne has contacted these people, but arranging
        a meeting has been difficult so far

  * Flyering around campus. 
  
      + Poster boards: If we wanted to post in the big closed off
        poster boards, our posters would almost always need approval from the 
        porters. This is not a formal procedure, but one to be aware of. 
      + If we can get buy-in from some of the societies, many of them have 
        their own notice boards which are largely un-regulated.
      + NightLine used to simply turn up en masse with posters and cover 
        various bits of campus, for example, the inside of toilet doors. We 
        could do something similar, but a bit less intrusive? We may need to 
        speak to the university admin about this to keep relations friendly.


Some postering ideas:

  * ``Do You Know Your Digital Rights?'' 
  * ``Do You Have an Interest in Freedom of Speech? Meet us in V-Bar at 8PM on 
    Thursday''

### The Branch Itself

The members of the branch will meet at least monthly, but ideally once every 
two weeks.

We would like to have some leafleting/campaigning in the city centre with a 
stall. We would need some flyers, leaflets, perhaps the party banner (Phil may
be able to borrow this from Andy/Loz). Other merchandise ideas include badges &
pens -- these could go down well at fresher's fair.

We aim to expand past the university, but what we do after that is broadly up
for grabs. At least one option is to start trying to gain a presence at other
universities, for example, York St. John.

Other short-term options are the York Skeptics in the Pub. Persephone is 
willing to give a talk, as the Open Rights Group have given a talk there in the
past. One potential area that is of interest may be the Medical 
Confidentiality campaign that has recently launched.

Actions
=======

  1. Persephone to email the socs (maybe the chairs/secretaries directly) to
     try to get some form of relationship going and maybe get some 
     opportunities to give talks.
  2. Phil to contact Steve Wilson (Head of Party IT) about getting Persephone
     an email address, as well as a York branch-specific party email.
  3. Turner to research York Community Print (and other printing services) to
     see if they can compete with our current print suppliers. Even if they 
     are more expensive, having a backup is always good.
  4. Leanne to get the York website up and running as well as the social media

Next Meeting
============

The next meeting will take place on the 8^th^ of May, 2013, at Leanne and 
Phil's house.

Any Other Business
==================

Persephone wants to run for Press Officer. Phil will help Persephone.


